---
title: "Keynote"
bg: white
color: black
style: left
fa-icon: microphone
---

### Keynote speech:

#### *Title*: Serendipity: How supercomputing technology is enabling a revolution in artificial intelligence

***Speaker*: José E. Moreira, Distinguished Research Staff Member, IBM Research**

*Abstract*: With the availability of both large compute power and large data sets, we have witnessed a revolution in machine learning technology, which has become a mainstream tool for both business and scientific applications. This revolution is likely to accelerate, as even more compute power is brought to bear, and deliver many of the promises of artificial intelligence. In this talk we will investigate how far the impacts of machine learning can go. We will cover the new <span style="color:blue">*<a href="https://www.olcf.ornl.gov/summit/">Summit supercomputer</a>*</span>, which brings unprecedented compute capabilities to both traditional high performance computing and artificial intelligence problems, analyzing the similarities as well as the differences in those two fields. We will also speculate about the future of machine learning and, in particular, its possible limitations. We will conclude with a  discussion of one of the most important scientific questions of our time: Is consciousness computable?

*Bio*: José E. Moreira IBM Research Division, Thomas J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, New York. Dr. Moreira is a Distinguished Research Staff Member in the Scalable Systems Department at the Thomas J. Watson Research Center.  He received a B.S. degree in physics and B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Sao Paulo, Brazil, in 1987, 1988 and 1990, respectively. He also received a Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1995. Since joining IBM at the Thomas J. Watson Research Center, he has worked on a variety of high-performance computing projects. He was system software architect for the Blue Gene/L supercomputer and chief architect of the Commercial Scale Out project. He currently leads the IBM Research work on the architecture of Power processor. He is an author or coauthor of over 100 technical papers and 10 patents.  Dr. Moreira is a member of the IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) and a Distinguished Scientist of the ACM (Association for Computing Machinery).


